JONAS MACKENSON's MORTAL BACKGROUND:

BIRTH NAME: Jonas Mackenson

CONCEPT:  Reluctant Kindred Occult Expert (Voodoo and non Christian religions) -  Brooklyn born Human Haitian, attended undergrad at St. John's University as a Theology major with a minor Theology and Religious Studies https://www.stjohns.edu/academics/programs/theology-bachelor-arts. He later attained a PhD from in Occultism, Witchcraft, Fetishism, Subculture Studies from Columbia University https://anthropology.columbia.edu/content/occultism-witchcraft-fetishism-subculture-studies.  Spending most of his extra-curricular time indulging in Martial Arts as a hobby. Jonas Mackeson's family of Hunters and Mages were descendants and members of the same house of Mages  that turned into Clan Tremere, when they sought immortality. He can trace  his ancestry and heritage to the human branch of that vampire clan's arcane lineage. Jonas has a uncanny knack for the supernatural because his branch of the family took up the Inquisitive Hunter Creed. 

Despite how he was trained and raised, Jonas has desperately tried to live a normal life and is irritated by any associations to voodoo stereotypes. He's been relatively successful at avoiding the life, but has recently lost contact with his last remaining relative. While going through their things, he discovered a Journal outlining a plan and contacts for a hunt in San Francisco dated Months back. 

Settling into the family San Francisco Safe House his investigation resulted in discovering his brother was "Embraced" by Clan Tremere while hunting and Jonas' final encounter with his lost brother lead to him being "Embraced" by brother who is a Cleaver that feeds on Close family members

His brother leads the effort of fighting and hunting down their own family for the Tremere. If the family line were extinguished, such a fate would burden Jonas with the responsibility of being the only one willing to pass on his families traditions, knowledge, and preserve the lore of their heritage

HOW JONAS MET 
Your Homeless Gangrel Kindred MAYBE met Jonas while trying to take Vitae from my blood bank mortal contact. I intervened 
(Discipline  Heightened Senses , Sense the Unseen,  Extinguish Vitae  )

inviting you to stay with me in my San Francisco Safe House. I try to convince you there is a better way to go about vitae given my background


JONAS MACKENSON's HAVEN in San Francisco:
The Occult expert Jonas, raised by the resourceful Mackenson Hunter family that stalks the Tremere Clan, now lives in the Mackenson family Safe House in San Francisco. While living there he  was "Embraced" by his Cleaver Kindred Tremere Brother who feeds and craves the blood of Close family members

Conviction - I must preserve my family line, 
Touchstone - ( brother who was also "Embraced" while hunting Tremere clan)
Advantage Merits - Library(•) , Resources(••), Warding(•),  Cell (•)
City Secrets -(•)    This grants knowledge about the city’s Kindred power structure. If this secret is about mortal business it’s only a way to explain Influence. This information can be sold at a high price, but its value lies in protection as the people involved may not want this information sold off and will do their best to keep you happy, for a time anyway. This can only be taken at a maximum of three times with each being a different secret.
. 
After Some time I introduce myself without revealing his FLAWS  


CURRENT GAME CAMPAIGN (Now 6 months after EMBRACE):
Now Jonas is been thrown into the world of the Camarilla as a Tremere Clan 13TH generation Neophyte Scholar - Blood Mage
https://vtm.paradoxwikis.com/Scholar_archetype
who has learned to 

A) Some mastery over the Disciplines of Auspex (••) and  Blood Sorcery  (••) 
Disciplines - Heightened Senses (•) , Sense the Unseen (•),  Extinguish Vitae (•) 

B) live as a Bagger Predator Gain Vitae from  non living blood as well as from a special ritual 
Conviction - I must avoid drinking from living people if possible Dead things are of
Feeding Merit - (•••) Iron Gullet
Advantage Merits - Contact (•)    These are mortals who can get the character information, items or other things of value.
Touchtone - ( Black Market Blood Bank Dealers)

C) Made an Enemy of religiously conservative Occult Mage ex girl friend and Academic, who Jonas enlisted to find a cure for vampirism, but ended up  stealing a ritual from resulting in her discovering my secret Dark Secret of being Kindred. Using her knowledge of the occult she cursed him to never enter consecrated ground without permission

Ambition - Prove that Magic can be used to cure his Vampiric condition
Conviction - I must preserve and enrich my family's knowledge of the Occult and Magic
Touchstone - (Enemy religiously conservative Occult Mage ex girl friend and Academic who I stole ritual Preserved Blood from )
Bagger Enemy Flaw - (••) of someone who believes this vampire owes them something or there's another reason to hunt them down 
Dark Secret Flaw - (• +)    What they've done is still a secret, except to one or two very motivated enemies.
Folkloric Block-    (•)    Must spend Willpower or move away from a specific object vampires are known to fear in Vampire Mythos, this example Holy Ground 



﻿
